# pandas-challenge
Summary
In my PyCity School Analysis, I merged the student data (students.csv), and the Schools data (schools.csv). This provided a comprehensive report with more details on student demographics as it compares to the school type, size and budget. Leveraging the data, I was able to create a snapshot of the districts key metrics which captured school count, student count, total budget, average math/reading scores, passing math/read percentages and overall passing rates. In depth analysis was conducted including taking averages not just by the entire student body, but by school. These average in particular in school math/reading allowed me to analyze students per schools who passed the respective subjects, resulting in the ability to take a total count of passing students for each school and calculate the overall passing percentage of each school. Leveraging these numbers faciliated the ability to generate reading/math scores by grade. Additional analysis was made including scores by spending schools, scores by school size and scores by school type. 

Conclusions
After conducting this analysis, we can determine the Highest performing school based on overall passing percentage is Cabrera High School. It achieved this feat despite having a per student budget of $582, the 2nd lowest of all schools we collected data on.  The top 5 performing schools are all "Charter" while the bottom 5 performing schools are all "District" school types. In reviewing the reading and math scores by grade DataFrames, students overall outperformed their math scores with their reading scores. The most interesting dataset was the analyzing the size summary DataFrame, containing Average Math scores, Average Reading score, Passing Math Percentage, Passing Reading Percentage and Overall Passing Percentage. As it pertains to Small school sizes (less than 1000 students) and Medium school sizes (1000-2000) the scores were extremely close to on another, in most cases often off by hundreds to thousands of a point. 